<!--
 * @Descripttion: 
 * @version: 
 * @Author: sch
 * @Date: 2022-04-02 09:53:22
 * @LastEditors: Please set LastEditors
 * @LastEditTime: 2022-05-01 09:33:10
-->
# 1. Implicit Rules

## 1.1. Here's a list of `implicit rules`
<font color="orange" size="4">

- Compiling a C program: `n.o` is made automatically from `n.c` with a command of the form `$(CC) -c $(CPPFLAGS) $(CFLAGS)`
- Compiling a C++ program: `n.o` is made automatically from `n.cpp` or n.cpp with a command of the form `$(CXX) -c $(CPPFLAGS) $(CXXFLAGS)`
- Linking a single object file: `n` is made automatically from `n.o` by running the command `$(CC) $(LDFLAGS) n.o $(LOADLIBES) $(LDLIBS)`

</font>

## 1.2. The important `variables` used by `implicit rules`
<font color="73DB90" size="4">

Part I
------
1. `AR`: Archive-maintaining program; default `ar`
2. `AS`: Program for compiling assembly files; default `as`
3. `CC`: Program for compiling C programs; default `cc`.
4. `CXX`: Program for compiling C++ programs; default `g++`.
5. `CPP`: Program for running the C preprocessor, with results to standard output; default `$(CC) -E`.


Part II
-------
1. `ARFLAGS`: Flags to give the archive-maintaining program; default `rv`.
2. `ASFLAGS`: Extra flags to give to the assembler (when explicitly invoked on a `.s` or `.S` file).
3. `CFLAGS`: Extra flags to give to the C compiler.
	- 指定头文件（`.h` 文件）的路径，如: `CFLAGS=-I/usr/include -I/path/include`。
4. `CXXFLAGS`: Extra flags to give to the C++ compiler.
5. `CPPFLAGS`: Extra flags to give to the C preprocessor and programs that use it (the C and Fortran compilers).


Part III
--------
1. `LDFLAGS` (linker flags): Extra flags to give to compilers when they are supposed to invoke the linker, `ld`, such as `-L.` Libraries (`-lfoo`) should be added to the LDLIBS variable instead.
```Makefile
# 也可以在里面指定库文件的位置
LDFLAGS = -L/usr/lib -L/path/to/your/lib
```
2. `LDLIBS` (load libraries): Library flags or names given to compilers when they are supposed to invoke the linker, `ld`. LOADLIBES is a deprecated (but still supported) alternative to LDLIBS. Non-library linker flags, such as `-L`, should go in the `LDFLAGS` variable.
```Makefile
# LIBS是告诉链接器要链接哪些库文件
LDLIBS = -lpthread -liconvs
```


</font>

Let's see how we can now build a C program without ever explicitly telling Make how to do the compililation:

```Makefile
CXX = g++ # Flag for implicit rules
CXXFLAGS = -g # Flag for implicit rules. Turn on debug info

# Implicit rule #1: blah is built via the `C linker implicit rule`
# Implicit rule #2: blah.o is built via the `C compilation implicit rule`, because blah.c exists
blah: blah.o
blah.o: blah.c

clean:
	rm -f *.o
```

# 2. Static Pattern Rules
Static pattern rules are another way to write less in a Makefile, but I'd say are more useful and a bit less "magic". Here's their syntax:
